fix(css): clarify counter-set vs counter-reset (#35258)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_counter_styles/using_css_counters/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

**CSS counters** let you adjust the appearance of content based on its location in a document.
For example, you can use counters to automatically number the headings on a webpage or to change the numbering on ordered lists.

Counters are, in essence, variables maintained by CSS whose values may be incremented or decremented by CSS rules that track how many times they're used. The following things affect the counter values on an element:

> 1. Counters are inherited from the parent element or received from a previous sibling.

Reviewer: With inheritance, it might be good to elaborate what that means.

https://drafts.csswg.org/css-lists/#inheriting-counters

Maybe an example is worth it (as a follow-up?)

Author: Created a new section.

2. New counters are instantiated using {{cssxref("counter-reset")}} property.
3. Counters are incremented using {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} property.

> 4. Counter values are changed using {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Counters are directly set to a value using the {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property.
```

You can define your own named counters, and you can also manipulate the `list-item` counter that is created by default for all ordered lists.

## Using counters

To use a counter it must first be initialized to a value with the {{cssxref("counter-reset")}} property.

> The counter's value can then be increased or decreased using the {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} property. And the counter value can also be changed using the {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The counter's value can be increased or decreased using the {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} property and can be directly set to a specific value using the {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property.
```

}
```

> You can specify the increment or decrement amount after the counter name. It can be a positive or negative number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify the increment or decrement amount after the counter name. It can be a positive or negative number, but defaults to `1` if no integer is provided.
```

Apart from increment or decrement, counters can also be explicitly set to a value using {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} property.

```css
.done::before {

>   counter-set: section;

Reviewer: Want to set it to a value here?

```suggestion
  counter-set: section 20;
```

> You can also use {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} to decrement a non-reversed counter.
> The main benefit of using a reversed counter is the default initial value, and that the `list-item` counter automatically decrements reversed counters.

### Difference between counter-set and counter-reset

> The {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property updates an existing counter and if no counter with the name exists then a new counter is instantiated. The {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} property _always_ creates a new counter.

Reviewer: `counter-increment` is the same as `counter-set` in terms of "if none exists, instantiate one"

```suggestion
The {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property updates an existing counter and if no counter with the name exists then a new counter is instantiated.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property updates an existing counter and if no counter with the name exists then a new counter is instantiated. The {{cssxref("counter-reset")}} property _always_ creates a new counter.
```

In the following example, we have two sub-lists inside a parent list. Each list item has been numbered using a counter named 'item'. The first sub-list uses {{cssxref("counter-set")}} property and the second sub-list uses {{cssxref("counter-reset")}} property to change the 'item' counter.

```html
<ul class="parent">

>   <li>one</li>

Reviewer: My comment above is more relevant here where you get this on the top-level

```
1 one
2 two
3 three
13 four
14 five
15 six
16 seven
```

Previously I've seen this kind of thing help:

```
1 A
2 B
3 C
13 D
14 E
15 F
16 G
```

  <li>two</li>
  <li>
    three (the counter updated using `counter-set`)
    <ul class="sub-list-one">
      <li>sub-one</li>
      <li>sub-two</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>four</li>
  <li>
    five (a new counter created using `counter-reset`)
    <ul class="sub-list-two">
      <li>sub-one</li>
      <li>sub-two</li>
      <li>sub-three</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>six</li>
  <li>seven</li>
</ul>
```

```css
/* show numbers on list items */
li::before {
  content: counter(item) " ";
}

/* increment the counter on each list item */
li {
  counter-increment: item;
}

> /* create a new counter for the first time */
> .parent {
>   counter-reset: item 0;
> }

Reviewer: Same as:

```suggestion
/* Reset the 'item' counter */
.parent {
  counter-reset: item;
}
```

Author: How can a counter be reset without creating it first? The parent is the first element that creates a counter. Perhaps we need to put the rule first in the style.

/* change the existing counter value */
.sub-list-one {
  counter-set: item 10;
}

/* change the counter value */
.sub-list-two {
  counter-reset: item 0;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("Difference between counter-set and counter-reset", "100%", 300)}}

> Notice how the first sub-list items start receiving numbers starting from `11`, and the numbering is continued in the parent list. This is because the `counter-set` property updates the same 'item' counter. Then notice how the second sub-list items receive new numbering starting from '1' and the parent list items after it don't carry forward the numbering. This is because the `counter-reset` property created a new counter with the same name so the parent list items kept using the old counter.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I follow this explanation, specifically "creating a new counter of the same name". Have you had a look at this one: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-lists/#counter-nesting-example

Author: :confused: Yes, the spec section does say that, ` instantiating a new counter on an element, which inherited an identically-named counter from its parent, creates a new counter of the same name, nested inside the existing counter. `

Reviewer: Okay I re-read and I understand now, sorry for picking on that
